---
layout: single
title: Welcome!
excerpt: "A blog post about this blog"
date: 2018-04-02 18:53:50 +0530
categories: blog
tags: General
permalink: /blog/welcome/
classes: wide
comments: false
author_profile: true
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/welcome.png
---

So this is my Second attempt at having a blog. Before this, I tried it out with a couple of my friends.
And the existence of this blog pretty much divulges the fate that the first one met with.
The previous attempt is no longer available. I guess one of us must have deleted that embarrassing attempt.
We were very ambitious with the first project and thus planned a lot.
And because it was all too much to do, we ended up doing absolutely nothing.

This time, I am doing this on my own. And have very few things that I wish to do with this.
I am going to go easy. Lesson learnt.

So I ~~copied~~ learnt from a lot of other webpages online and tried a simplistic theme. Thus far, it looks nice. I am trying to personalize it more. The theme is available [here](https://startbootstrap.com/themes/clean-blog/) if anyone wishes to try. I shall keep improving my this rather hasty attempt.

___
**Update:** On 20<sup>th</sup> May 2019, I started migrating the entire website from the earlier HTML/CSS based theme to a better one made with Jekyll. You can find that [here](https://github.com/mmistakes/so-simple-theme). I have further edited and made some tweaks which you can see on [my github](https://github.com/smitchaudhary/).

**Updated update:** I have again changed the theme and now, I am using [Minimal Mistakes](https://mademistakes.com/work/minimal-mistakes-jekyll-theme/).

The reason behind this is I wanted to try making something using Jekyll once, and what better way to do that than trying it out on your website. So, for better or worse, here we are.

____

People at IITK tend to create those webpages where they share Google Drive links to the Study Material of different courses. Which includes books, lecture notes, assignments, and question papers from previous years. Although they are of immense help, they are plenty in number. So even if I did that, I don't think I would be adding much value, if any at all. So I am not doing that. I am doing a more conventional (unconventional from IITK point of view) blog. Where I write about whatever pleases me (or not).
